# Tutorial-Flawfinder  
A basic tutorial about Flawfinder (a static source code analysis tool) for a lecture presentation.  

## How to Install  
Flawfinder is an open-source project that is easy to install and designed for Unix systems. It is essentially a parser that searches for potential security vulnerabilities.  
The complete installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/david-a-wheeler/flawfinder/blob/master/INSTALL.md), but the two main installation methods are via *pip* or *apt install*, as shown in the examples below:  

- `pip install flawfinder`  
- `sudo apt install flawfinder`  

It is also possible to install it from the source or run it directly. For that, I recommend checking the full instructions.  

## How to use  
Once installed, Flawfinder does not require any special configuration and can be executed directly from the terminal, as shown in the example below:  

```
pcgomesp@pcgomesp-pc:~$ flawfinder
Flawfinder version 2.0.19, (C) 2001-2019 David A. Wheeler.
Number of rules (primarily dangerous function names) in C/C++ ruleset: 222
*** No input files
```

Flawfinder provides a series of *input*, *output*, and *hit* flags that modify how it **searches**, **analyzes**, and **reports** vulnerabilities. It is recommended to check the [official documentation](https://dwheeler.com/flawfinder/flawfinder.pdf) to better understand what each flag does.  

## Output examples  

This repository contains specific examples of outputs generated by Flawfinder, which can be found in the `outputs_examples` folder. The source files used to generate these outputs come from other subjects in the Technical Residency in Automotive Software program and are located in `source_codes`.  

Two examples of files and their outputs are as follows:  

### `flawfinder --csv [path_to_RTOS_Final_Pc]/TrabFinal/Trabalho_1`  

This command generates the file found in `outputs_examples/out_csv_flawfinder - --csv RTOS.pdf`.  

### `$ flawfinder --csv [path_to_posix_lecture_project]/trabalho-final-posix-pcgomesp/Trabalho_1`  

This command generates the file found in `outputs_examples/pdf_version_out_csv_flawfinder - --csv Posix Trab1.pdf`.  